hey everybody it's Aster we have one of
our very favorite founder CEOs Henry
shuck here from Zoom info I think all of
us have used at least some of the zoom
info portfolio of tools we've certainly
all used it in our in our sales teams
we've used marketing tools the portfolio
has grown which we'll chat about but as
part of our wet new series I couldn't
think of somebody who more has the pulse
of what's going on in the markets and
that a personal level I want to hear
what's going on at the product level
especially Ai and data and four things I
wanted to get an honest no Sony baloney
feedback so Henry thank you so much for
coming back and joining us again of
course thanks for having me Jason hello
to everybody yeah thank you and I want
to get to what's new at Zoom info but
before we get there I I noticed
something that I thought from uh GTM
perspective was super interesting
recently is that you said and and folks
other folks have said this you're going
more plg right probably to be more
efficient but also more Enterprise at
the same time right more more focused on
those six and seven figure deals how do
you do both do you have two teams are
are people at each other's throats like
they're all they're obviously not
completely in opposition to each other
but at some level they are right product
marketing sales how do you do both yeah
so great question and it is very much
like these two things do tend to be at
odds with each other Yeah in our
business if you think about the barbell
approach basically I've got the
Enterprise business where we do business
with you know today almost 2,000
companies who spend uh $100,000 or more
with us dozens of companies who spend
over a million dollars a year with us we
see our biggest opportunity really in
the Enterprise segment of our business
and so lifetime value is higher they
grow more with us they have a lot of
room to expand and so we don't want to
ever neglect that opportunity and so
you've got to staff properly
particularly in the account base for
that and so making sure that we have the
right account loads for our largest most
potential to grow clients and making
sure we've built a repeatable process
that says hey if we land a you know a
Fortune 50 company at a $100,000 a year
contract that we have a blueprint to
grow that to a million2 million $3
million annual customer yep and so we're
investing meaningfully behind that we
brought in the right managers we've set
up the right account loads we' brought
in the right people we think that's an
ongoing great opportunity for the
business at the same time there are only
10,000 Fortune 1,000
companies and then there are hundreds of
thousands of downmarket businesses that
can get value out of Zoom info and so
what we've been rolling out this year is
the ability for you know an SMB customer
that maybe does you know payroll in
Philadelphia to become a customer of
Zoom info without having to talk to an
account executive without ever going
through the demo process but with the
ability to sign up for a free trial and
then grow into a paid customer of Zoom
info the place where that creates
friction obviously is that we also have
a pretty large new business sales team
of account Executives yeah who would
theoretically capture that as a lead do
a demo follow up try to evangelize the
platform and get to a a sale of Zoom
info um and so you have to step into
this it requires tremendous alignment
between Pro the product lead on plg and
the new business sales head and the
chief Revenue officer the way you step
into it or at least the way that we've
stepped into it is okay let's take the
cohort of leads we're not talking to
anyways they don't meet the score
threshold they're too small of a
business or whatever the reasons are
yeah let's push those through the plg
motion see how they behave make sure
that we can continue to maintain the new
business sales motion while we're doing
that and see if we can get to a place
where it's additive at some Point you're
gonna start bumping into each other
you're G to create channel conflict hey
you sold that as a one seat deal I would
have sold it as a five seat deal yeah
there can be some truth to it right
there absolutely there's truth to that
yeah and so really a lining between the
plg head and the new business head so
that when that channel conflict clearly
rears its head or obviously rears its
head that we also have conviction around
the volume that we're generating and a
pathway to move a plg customer after a
certain amount of usage from a one seat
customer to a three- seat customer to a
five- seat customer there has to be that
pathway for new business to get in and
grow those accounts and so we built that
connective tissue back in but then we're
also driving in the Enterprise where we
think there's the biggest opportunity
those two things growing in the
Enterprise and growing in plg they don't
create the same that same kind of
conflict the conflict is around
messaging really marketing and messaging
because the way that you market and
message to a startup or an SMB or a plg
customer is very different than the way
you want to talk to your Enterprise
customers and so that's where the battle
really happens is how do I have
messaging that resonates to my upmarket
customers while at the same time not
neglecting my SMB customers that's a
magic trick because Enterprises want to
be you know all of the messaging to an
Enterprise is really different I'll give
you a real just a fun example we talk a
lot about like how we show up on social
today and social is where a lot of our
SMB and our startup customers are
getting the messaging about us yeah
primarily like LinkedIn while at the
same time we're like okay well how do we
get in front of our Enterprise customers
they're not really getting that
messaging on social and Linkedin instead
we're going hey PR team hey content team
for our Enterprise customers we should
be out there positioning articles with c
io.com or with Forbes or Fortune where
we bring one of our Enterprise customers
in and we go here's what we did for them
here's how we work together to modernize
how they go to market let's go pitch
that as a story to CIO to Forbes to
Fortune to the Wall Street Journal about
how you know Fortune 50 company A and C
are modernizing the way that they go to
market that also doesn't resonate with
our SMB customers a little bit but they
don't really care what you know Walmart
and Google and Microsoft are doing they
want to know what other smbs and
startups that look like them are doing
so there is a bifurcation of the
marketing effort for sure yeah it's
interesting I thought you were going to
talk about just a more basic thing how
even at the website level the domain
it's tough to to hit them all but that
marketing thing you know it's also very
hard to find a marketer that's good at
both I think it's
impossible yeah that's you got to pick
one you want to do all of them but
they're only going to be great at either
getting you in with cios or managing a
funnel from a million folks hitting
zoominfo.com right they can't be great
at both yeah totally I think the way
that we think about that is like at the
highest level I want my chief marketing
officer to know how to talk to cios
Chief Revenue officers at really large
businesses and then I want somebody in
content or someone in the marketing
organization to really own like
Community buildings Community Building
social how we how we talk to our
customers in the communities and social
media places that we operate and how do
I get someone who's really great at that
while making sure at the highest level
we're communicating with our Enterprise
customers on the website hey just one
more question on this because I I super
curious to learn from you a lot of folks
are trying to go more plg Salesforce
just said they're they're going back
they're trying to get in with self-
served and plg but I think the reason
Salesforce is doing it is because on
paper they think it's cheaper do you
this is the age of Efficiency do you
think it's really cheaper or just better
in that Zoom info for example the core
products anyone can use it right is it
cheaper or just better to expand the
base um so I think it's both if you look
at scale plg is cheaper right you're if
you figured out an organic way to drive
traffic to your website there's
obviously some investment there how do I
get people and traffic to zoom info's
website that I can then convert into a
paying customer if I can do that without
a person that's definitely more
efficient and cheaper then driving
demand through an outbound motion where
there's an SDR there's a sales Ops layer
that's feeding that SDR then that SDR is
making calls and sending emails
generating demand that way that then
goes to an account executive who has to
do a demo and take them through a funnel
that's a happier but you guys are good
at that you have 40% margins we are good
at that you're really really yeah are
you sure plg is cheaper than 40% margins
from a sales driven process I'm not
saying it's not a good idea but is it
cheaper yeah well it's cheaper in that
instead of that process yeah you're
replacing that process with the right
group of companies with a process that
brings them in in a no touch
self-service way yeah if you do that
versus the sales Le way that is by
definition cheaper I don't think we're
not doing it to get efficiencies that's
the real question I'm asking yeah yeah
we're not doing it from an for an
efficiency reason we're doing it for a
whole group of people who should be Zoom
info customers that we're never going to
get in front of with the sales L motion
anyways yeah and so here's this whole
group of smbs you know we've we we've
mapped our Market as 700,000 businesses
and there's a whole group of them that
we're never gonna we're never going to
put a sales rep in front of we just
don't have the the sales reps to be in
front of every customer who has a
passing interest in Zoom info but but
can I take a group of those and make
them customers paying customers without
a sales rep being in front of them yes
absolutely and so then it should just be
additive the second place where I think
and maybe this is what Salesforce is
talking about is we're also you know
Google is a customer and you know AWS is
a customer but not across every sales
rep that should be a customer at AWS or
Google across some sub segment of them I
want to give free access to zoom info to
as many of the sellers as many of the
account Executives account managers sdrs
bdrs marketing people at our big clients
for free and then I want the opportunity
to take that cohort of users go up to
the chief Revenue officer and say listen
you've got 200 sellers 300 sellers who
are using Zoom info every day I'm not
charging them right now but at renewal
time let's start planning for them to be
I'm gonna have to sell you the license
yep that's the classic yes yeah yeah
super interesting let's talk a little
bit to help other folks what are you
seeing at a macro level I want to learn
from Zoom info because and we were
chatting about this a little bit before
we started zoom in is probably in a
bigger category in this but when I talk
about sales and marketing tools I think
it's probably the most heavily impacted
by whatever we're in I'm not even sure
it's a downturn when you look at but
it's a something turn it's like it's
like a truck at a wall or something but
the impacts are not even are they
they're not even across the industry so
what are you seeing and have we hit a
bottom in terms of some of these
contractions or do we just not know yeah
so look I think that the thing if from
where you said Jason you see like
hitting a wall yeah then and and you
know we see that to we see it primarily
in our software vertical so our software
and Technology customers and the best
way that I can
articulate what we're seeing there is
just about every VC and every private
Equity Firm is showing up has shown up
to their portfolio companies and they've
said Hey listen I know I was just
talking to a company today that got an
investment a year ago brought two
companies together and their private
Equity team is showing up and saying
listen I know that when we bought the
company we told you that we wanted to
grow that growth was the most important
thing for the business we have changed
our perspective on that and while we
were planning on you growing 40 to
50% year-over-year yeah what we would
prefer and burning dollars to do that
dollars that we invested for that
purpose what we would prefer now is that
you grow 10% and you do it with 30%
margins and you've got a quarter to
figure that out and so when that happens
that is the that is the event in a
business where the handbreak gets pulled
on the freeway and everything stops and
so you end up making what are less than
rational decisions to get to that point
as fast as possible you're laying off
you're cutting tool spend you're looking
around everywhere and seeing how you
know what can I cut and how quickly now
for companies like ours that manifests
in two ways one our Tech cohort of
customers who our fastest growing cohort
of customers for the the last two
decades running they were the customers
that grew the most with us they were the
most loyal with us and all of a sudden
these are customers who are
downselling and then some are turning
you know some are actually turning
outright the downsell is what we're
seeing the most particularly in
midmarket and it's a combination of hey
I just don't have the seats anymore you
know like as part of that get to 30%
margin I'm actually laying off sales
reps and SD DS and bdrs and account
managers I don't have a need for those
seats anymore so we have to get rid of
that and then and then I'm just actually
going to cut spend other places too
instead of every account executive
having this I'm going to give it to half
of them instead of every SDR having it
I'm G to give it only to this portion of
the sdrs and so there's this you
know double punch that's happening where
you're
downselling because of the seats and
you're downselling because of this VC PE
pressure and if you're a company that
sells primarily to other technology
companies other software companies
you're feeling that in the worst way and
I think that a lot of startup world and
VC and packed firms a big portion of
their customer base is technology and
software companies the bigger portion it
becomes the more it's midmarket and a
bigger portion the more you're feeling
that effect
now they this has been happening now for
like a year I think q1 of I think as you
pass q1 of 24 you will be left with a
customer base that has transitioned over
the last year with you that's already
been through a renewal cycle since
they've learned of these Cuts has
already been through a renewal cycle
since they've laid employees off since
they've operated in this new model and
so there should be more a more normal
ized customer base from a retention
perspective as you transition past q1 of
24 and you should be seeing a better
retention rate a better renewal rate
because the customers who are there with
you are customers who've already gone
through that storm by and laar yeah I
mean we don't know for sure but what
once we get through that period it
should be better right it may not be
great yep but it should be better if
we're through this this almost oneoff
contraction time right it should be
better we hope right should be better
and you should not be surprised right
like not be it should be more
predictable right it should a lot more
predictable because you know one of the
things that we saw in our business
people talk a lot about additional
scrutiny and then they don't really talk
about like what that actually means in
your business but you know one of the
things that we saw is like historical
levels of usage and utilization that
correlated to a renewal and retention
rate changed on us and so if you were
utilizing call it 80 plus per of your
licenses on a regular basis yeah that
was an account that you would see grow
with you at renewal time like that was
an upsell account oh I see interesting
yeah now that might be a downsell that
might be cont down sell it's a
contraction I definitely don't need
those 20% of same utilization though
same utilization rates are now connected
to a different net retention and net
renewal rate I think the biggest
learning for me is if you came to me
two years ago and I was meeting with a
new Chief customer officer or senior VP
of customer success and I was like Hey
how do you want me to judge you if they
told me hey you should judge me on
health of accounts utilization of the
accounts you know overall usage and
engagement with the product I'd be like
no I'm gonna judge you on net renewal
rate and net retention rate because
those are the the metrics in the
business that actually matter for what
you do and so I don't care if you tell
me if every account is super healthy but
that correlates to a very low retention
or renewal rate you know I don't care
for that so I'm going to tell you net
retention net renewal rate the problem
with that is that between 2020 and 2022
those metrics they just ticked up and it
didn't actually matter how healthy every
account was it didn't it it disguised a
lot of things right disguised a lot of
things and so when I thought I was being
more true to the bottom line of the
business net retention and net renewal
rate matter the most yeah it hid a whole
bunch of like health related things that
you should have been focused on and so
today I think the most important metric
in our business in any software business
is utilization and engagement am I using
all of my seats How Deeply am I engaging
across those seats those are the metrics
that matter the most for whether you're
going to be healthy at renewal time or
not yeah it's a good Insight that the
high owner are just it it was a
generation of of of disguising issues
from product to sales all AC all up and
down the stack right 100% And you would
pat yourself on the back you'd go like
yeah we're Geniuses we're the best
customer success
deployment I'm glad I made all those
investments in customer success because
look at this net renewal rate net
retention rate ticking up this small
question but curious this the to to go
in and say listen I'm gonna I'm gonna
I'm gonna have zoom info for Bob but not
Elena and Jim but not Jane to save money
that does take energy
yeah it takes a lot of energy like and
and you could do it once because there's
a crisis or my boss yells at me but you
can't do this every month has this got
to end in a way there's only so much
time with software management yeah look
I think this is the the the worst
emotion for software sales is
uncertainty and we are we we have been
in this very un time and I think that
what we're coming you know what we
should be coming out of yeah and 24 is
that uncertainty now I know where my
operating levels are I know how to
operate in this environment a lot of
companies have shifted around their
executive teams brought in new people
these people know how to operate in the
environment that they are in and so
there shouldn't be another handbreak
moment yeah we should be op
understanding where we're operating and
how to operate under this construct good
all right before we run out of time I
want to make enough time for what's new
what's new at Zoom info and
and but the first part just tell me
because we're all Cur everyone that's in
B2B is curious what's real and what is
in an AI what's demo Weare what's moving
the needle what are you hearing from
your and what do your customers want
that may be real or fake or not right
there in general in across your
portfolio what's real yeah so I think
what's real first I think there's a lot
of stuff that's real but maybe not that
valuable and then there's stuff that's
just real so I'll talk about the real
things in our business we see
prioritization and personalization are
real okay so when you come into Zoom
info today if I want to personalize that
experience for you I want to show you
the right accounts I want to show you
you know which what technologies that a
companies using matter to you what
intent topics are important what scoop
topics are important I got to ask you a
whole Litany of questions right and I
have to ask you them buy product because
maybe your company has three product SKS
and the buyer for for one is different
than the buyer for the other the scoop
that you're looking for is different for
one product versus the other product
it's like this nightmare from an
administrative per perspective what size
companies where are they you know how
big are they what technologies do they
use who's in your buying committee it's
impossible to really get someone to sit
down for an hour and on board with you
to ask all of these questions and then
get to like a really solid result that
allows me to personalize the interface
for you yes AI does incredibly well and
can be tuned so that whenever user comes
into the platform I have pre configured
the platform exactly to which companies
which people what Scoops what intent
what signal is important to you I can
just deliver that to you and then I can
also deliver for you
contextually what your Communications to
those companies should be based on your
website all that understanding that I
have about you your case studies all
that information should allow me to
craft in any circumstance a really
contextual communication for you the
second is
prioritization and today
triangulation is how people prioritize
who they're going to reach out to they
go okay here's my list of accounts in
those accounts what's happening in them
are any of them on my website have any
of them hired a new CTO have any of them
had a good quarter have any of them
posted a job for blah blah blah blah
blah that's like a very painful exercise
to try to triangulate and AI does a
really great job of gathering all of
this signal and being able to deliver
you prioritization on the accounts
prioritization on the people
prioritization on the timing of when and
how to engage because you also don't
always engage via email or phone maybe
you're going to engage on ads you're
going to you know they're at a stage
where you're going to put ads in front
of them on Facebook or LinkedIn or
Twitter or wherever and
so personalize The Experience prioritize
who I should be engaging with give me
the context to engage with them and then
help me pick where I should be engaging
with them that's all real in the AI
stack absolutely real what do you think
on if we go to post sales support if we
look at intercom zenes
gorgeous their their goal all there is
to eliminate 50% of the humans from the
loop automate 50% of interactions does
any of this automating sdrs and AES this
stuff going to work in our in our work
lifetimes or are we just goingon to make
them better or less lazy no I do think
we'll automate out a lot of the function
uh yes not all of it but I do think
there are lots of places you know look
there are companies where the SDR is
just sending emails like what do you
what do you need they like just to press
a button like it does not necessary in
those situations sdo are going to have
to move up the value chain and figure
out like where do they add value where
you know what you're really going to get
to and want to get to is where is the
SDR riding alongside the AI and driving
incremental value along that chain it is
the co-pilot model for sdrs and account
Executives is how do I leverage the AI
to be more productive to add value to
the AI while I'm moving myself up that
value
that is where they're going to plug in
cool I hope so I was asked this week by
sdrs one would I like to buy Salesforce
I've been a customer since
2005 I was also asked if I'd like to
join the G2 Reach digital event with
Henry and Jason
speaking yeah those are trying those are
pretty bad ones those are bad ones
they're also triangulation problems
right triangulation I have to you know I
gotta go look and see you know who's
going to this who is my customer and if
I don't have to triangulate because the
AI will triangulate for me I do get rid
of a lot of those issues yeah yeah
though I do love how it makes SD's email
better if nothing else I'm just waiting
to see what's Real uh and what isn't
okay last one on this and maybe it's
related to a or maybe it isn't what's
what's your favorite feature or
functionality that you've either rolled
out recently or are going to roll out in
the next 12 months what are you most
excited about so we are rolling out uh a
product that a co-pilot product for our
account Executives sdrs and account
managers internally we call it signal to
action okay and so you come in we do all
of that personalization for you so we
know who your company is we know the the
Scoops and intent spikes that are
important to you we know what companies
are visiting your website who's on your
pricing page we know what your buying
committee looks like who are the buyers
at those companies we know who's coming
in and out of that buying uh committee
and then we've built a decisioning
engine in the middle that looks at all
that signal and decides which companies
you should be engaging with today and
how you should be engaging with them and
so we're bringing account Executives
sdrs into this universe that tells them
these are the accounts these are the
reasons these are the people these
people should be communicated with this
email look at the email hit it to go
these people should get an ad click this
button so marketing OS launches an ad
these people should be in just marketing
automation these are people who should
just be on your radar and so the ability
to use AI to synthesize a whole bunch of
noise and pull signal out of that to
deliver at the exact right time with the
context you need to uh engage with the
buyer we're super excited about that
when's that coming it's it's already in
beta it'll be in PA and q1 and how does
it work do I log in and get a series of
action items that then I go through or
what's the flow like yeah that is the
flow so you log in and you see what's
going on at accounts that you're
currently engaged with and then with
action items associated with them and
then Green Field or wh space accounts
what's go which are the accounts I
should be engaging with with the
oneclick action against got it well
that's the V that's what we talked about
that should be the vision right that
should that that's what we all need and
want right yep the question becomes if
over time you can automate that whole
thing where I'm not actually saying like
go go go go go on these instead it's
just being automated in the background
we're not there today but yeah yeah
hopefully as we do this maybe we could
wrap on this point if as if this all I
mean this will work for Zoom info as
this works the A and sdrs and others
they do need to be better they do need
to be better product sants they do need
to be Ambassador their job is not to
write the exact same email I I hope as
an industry we can get there yeah I hope
as an industry we can get there maybe we
need slightly different
people yeah or we need slightly
different enablement and implementation
and look I it's hard to imagine that the
new Co of employees here at Zoom info
are less techsavvy than the people I
started the company with like the my
chief Revenue officer the day he sat
down in the seat he asked me I told him
to open Outlook and he said what is
Outlook I don't know what that
is I hear it today's cohort of new first
and Seed employees are way more
techsavvy and so they just need to be
pointed at a different set of software
to come up to speed I think they I worry
that for the current generation that
we've been doing stuff the same way so
long that it's hard to change you know I
know from another sass leader to zoom
info I write the same info email I do
the same Playbook and we've gotten so
used to these I I hope so I almost think
like AI I'm hoping it ignites like a
radical change in the industry that
that's one of the questions that I've
been asking my SDR team is listen I
think you know we have 400 sdrs we have
this
really efficient effective motion for
generating new business and what I've
been asking them lately is hey I want to
know where the Innovation is like
Innovation cannot just come from you
scaled this thing we did five years ago
from 10 sdrs to 400 sdrs that is
innovation I'll give you that but it's
not the real Innovation I'm looking for
tell me the things that we're doing that
are new Innovative Cutting Edge
different I want to know what we're
doing there and so you know we have to
just keep asking those questions
otherwise we are just going to run the
same Playbook that we land we ran since
200 nine yeah it can't work better I
mean it work one time it the second time
works better the the eighth time I think
it works worse yeah I think that's right
that's right all right hry this was
amazing did we hit everything we wanted
to hit anything we missed no I think
that's it all right man you are the best
we look forward to keeping the
conversation going and again thank you
so much for these pretty deep insights I
think they'll be helpful to everybody
thanks my friend thank you and thanks
everybody